
# Virtual Memory Management Simulator
The Virtual Memory Management Simulator is designed to emulate and analyze the critical aspects of address translation in virtual memory systems. 
The primary focus of this simulator is on the Page Table, Translation Lookaside Buffer (TLB), and their interaction with the operating system. 
The goal of the project is to enhance the TLB cache hit rate, thereby minimizing the need for the operating system to access the page table for every memory request. 


## Key Features

**Page Table Simulation:** The simulator replicates the functioning of a page table, that maintains a mapping between virtual addresses generated by CPU and their corresponding physical addresses in the computer's physical memory.

**TLB Emulation:** The TLB is a critical component of the simulator, allowing users to adjust parameters and optimize TLB hit rates. Parameters such as TLB levels, TLB sizes, TLB replacement algorithms are customizable for experimentation.

**Dynamic Page Size:** This innovative design introduces a dynamic page size feature, accommodating page sizes ranging from 4KB to 1GB, with increments or decrements occurring by a factor of 2. 

**Test Generator:** The test generator generates masstive virtual address patterns with specified degrees of locality. 


## Analysis and Visualization


In addition to implementing the simulator, the project conducted experiments on different page size modes (static and dynamic), TLB levels and TLB replacement algorithms. 


**Two-Level TLB vs. One-Level TLB**


Result: Two-Level TLB performs better than one-level TLB. For detailed information, see Experimentation_results.pptx.


**Dynamic Page Size vs. Fixed Page Size (4KB)**


Result: Dynamic page size performs better than fixed page size. For detailed information, see Experimentation_results.pptx.


**TLB Replacement Algorithms on Performance (Least Recently Used, Least Frequently Used, Random, First In First Out)**


Result: The TLB hit rates varie depending on differnt localities of the address access patterns.For detailed information, see Experimentation_results.pptx.

